feat(tui): apply terminfo overrides from $NVIM_TERMDEFS (#39555)
neovim/neovim: runtime/doc/tui.txt

  gunzip terminfo.src.gz
  tic -x terminfo.src
<

>                                                        *$NVIM_TERMINFO*

Reviewer: as @ofseed called out, it's probably too confusing to name this "terminfo". how about `NVIM_TERMDEFS` or `NVIM_TERMCODES` ? for reference, Vim calls its `t_xx` options `terminal-key-codes`

  gunzip terminfo.src.gz
  tic -x terminfo.src
<

                                                       *$NVIM_TERMDEFS*
To override terminfo entries without modifying terminfo files, use
$NVIM_TERMDEFS. This may be useful on Windows, where Unibilium can't read
terminfo files. When this is set, terminfo files are not used, but builtin
terminfo entries are. Any values in this variable will override the builtin

> definitions. It should be a JSON object with any of the following keys. Be

Reviewer: can we show a micro-example

```sh
NVIM_TERMDEFS='
 ...
' nvim
```

  gunzip terminfo.src.gz
  tic -x terminfo.src
<

                                                       *$NVIM_TERMDEFS*
To override terminfo entries without modifying terminfo files, use

> $NVIM_TERMDEFS. This may be useful on Windows, where Unibilium can't read
> terminfo files. When this is set, terminfo files are not used, but builtin
> terminfo entries are. Any values in this variable will override the builtin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$NVIM_TERMDEFS. These definitions replace corresponding builtin
terminfo entries, and the system terminfo (if any) is skipped entirely.
```

definitions. For example, to disable alternate screen, override the sequence
nvim sends to reset the cursor style, and set the sequences that get
interpreted as <Home> and <S-Home>: >

  NVIM_TERMDEFS='{
    "enter_ca_mode": "",
    "exit_ca_mode": "",
    "reset_cursor_style": "\u001b[0 q",
    "key_home": ["\u001bOH", "\u001b[1;2H"]
  }' nvim
<
Be careful when putting escape sequences in strings, as JSON uses unicode
escapes like `\u001b`. The following fields are supported. For fields of type
`string[]`, the first entry is the unshifted variant of the key, and the

> second entry is the shifted variant.

Author: @justinmk I went back and forth with the type for keys. The alternative was `{"base": string, "shift": string}`. I'm still not sure which I prefer. The array felt easier to users since we only have shift, but if we add more mods like ctrl or alt, then it may get confusing.

Reviewer: > but if we add more mods like ctrl or alt, then it may get confusing.

why? p.s. in vim for example, `t_kh` (home key override) is just a string...

would using string type for all values simplify or complicate our code? in terminfo itself, they are all string, right?

Author: > > but if we add more mods like ctrl or alt, then it may get confusing.
>
> why? p.s. in vim for example, `t_kh` (home key override) is just a string...

Well, they can also have generic modmasks, but that's not going to be very intuitive for people, especially if we just have an array that contains all the combinations. The need to do this should be rare anyways, so I don't know if it's worth it.

The terminfo names output by `infocmp` are a bit of a mess. Keys and shift keys look like `key_left` and `key_sleft`. Only certain keys have a shift variant. See [here](https://invisible-island.net/ncurses/man/terminfo.5.html) and Ctrl + F `shifted`. But then other mods are only present in extended terminfo and are based on the mod mask. For instance, Ghostty defines `kLFT3` - `kLFT7`. `kLFT4` is Left + Shift (1) + Alt (2). The number corresponds to the mod mask + 1. I don't think the names in vim can account for these combinations if we want all termdefs to be able to be overridden.

> would using string type for all values simplify or complicate our code? in terminfo itself, they are all string, right?

In our terminfo struct, the keys are all 2 size arrays for unshifted and shifted, so I think the code is simpler if the users pass an array. Pretty much everything is a 1:1 mapping right now.

  gunzip terminfo.src.gz
  tic -x terminfo.src
<

                                                       *$NVIM_TERMINFO*
To override terminfo entries without modifying terminfo files, use
$NVIM_TERMINFO. This may be useful on Windows, where Unibilium can't read
terminfo files. This variable should be a json object with any of the
following keys. Be careful when putting escape sequences in strings, as json
uses unicode escapes like `\u001b.
>
  Key                        Type
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  carriage_return            string

>   change_scroll_region       string

Reviewer: not really excited about maintaining this list manually. I suppose that shouldn't block this PR, but we should plan to followup with a `gen_vimdoc.lua` change that generates this somehow.

Author: Sure, I can do that as a followup.
